README.md, before:

# Spreadsheet DB

![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/C3NZ/ssdb?style=plastic)

## Description

The goal of this project is to create a lightweight database that can be used for prototyping
and hackathon projects. This database being built will rely on the google spreadsheet API, and is not meant
to be used in production. It will provide an easy to use interface for CRUDing resources.

## Getting started

First to obtain the project:

    git clone https://github.com/C3NZ/ssdb.git

Second to connect, you need to get your credentials from google apis for connecting to the app.
After those credentials are created, you can then use a similar layout in your project to get the database
connection going.

    const { connect } = require('ssdb');

    const config = {
      credentialsPath: './credentials.json',
      tokenPath: './token.json',
    };

    connect(config).then(() => {
        ...
    });

Which will load the connection to the database. After that, you can export the `getDB` and `createDB` functions
from the `ssdb` package to get a `SheetDB` instance that will allow you to start working with your spreadsheet
from the command line.

The project is still very barebones, but development is active and looking to improve.

## To dos

-   Add documentation to the project readme.
-   Extend functionality for creating tables.
-   Publish googleapis wrapper for creating the DB.
-   Publish package to NPM.
-   Add testing and code coverage for all functions

## Goals

-   Create a simple and easy to use database.
-   Minimize the amount of steps needed to authenticate and setup a database.
-   Allow people building all sorts of projects to use an easily attachable/detachable database system
    for prototyping.

## API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

#### Table of Contents

-   [connect](#connect)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters)
    -   [Examples](#examples)
-   [createDB](#createdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-1)
    -   [Examples](#examples-1)
-   [getDB](#getdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-2)
    -   [Examples](#examples-2)
-   [setup](#setup)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-3)
-   [createSheet](#createsheet)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-4)
-   [getSheet](#getsheet)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-5)
-   [getFields](#getfields)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-6)
-   [getRefreshToken](#getrefreshtoken)
-   [SheetDB](#sheetdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-7)
    -   [getFields](#getfields-1)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-8)
        -   [Examples](#examples-3)
    -   [addField](#addfield)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-9)
        -   [Examples](#examples-4)
    -   [addItem](#additem)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-10)

### connect

connect to the google api. Needed in order to do any database operations and is what
generate the token file if it is not present

#### Parameters

-   `config` **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** The config object that contains properties for authenticating with
    google services. the fields that are used within the object are credentialsPath,
    tokenPath, and debug.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { connect } = require('ssdb');
config = {
  credentialsPath: "path/to/credentials",
  tokenPath: "path/to/tokenfile" // Will create if not already there.
  debug: false // true if you'd like to see what's going on under the hood.
}

// Successfully connects to google services
await connect(config)
```

### createDB

create a database (spreadsheet) from your google account given the name of the spreadsheet.

#### Parameters

-   `name` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The name that you'd like the new database to be named.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { createDB } = require('ssdb');

// Returns a new SheetDB instance
const db = await createDB('sfjklKJhf93Hvkljrf32');
```

### getDB

gets a database (spreadsheet) from your google account given the spreadsheet ID.

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The ID of the sheet that you're trying to receive.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { getDB } = require('ssdb');

// Returns a new SheetDB instance
const db = await getDB('sfjklKJhf93Hvkljrf32')
```

### setup

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `credentialsPath`  
-   `tokenPath`   (optional, default `''`)

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### createSheet

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `name`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getSheet

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getFields

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID`  
-   `field`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getRefreshToken

### SheetDB

The sheet database instance used for handling database interactions

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The sheetID that this current database is referencing (used for api calls)
-   `data` **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** metadata about the spreadsheet to be stored and kept for reference.
-   `defaultDB`   (optional, default `true`)

#### getFields

Get what fields are currently being stored inside of the database

##### Parameters

-   `field`   (optional, default `''`)

##### Examples

```javascript
// Retrieves the fields within a db
const currentFields = sheetDBInstance.getFields();
// currentFields would then look like this if printed:
{
  fieldName: {
    type: 'String',
    col: 'A1'
  }
}
```

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** fields - The fields that are currently stored within the database.

#### addField

Get what fields are currently being stored inside of the database

##### Parameters

-   `fieldName` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The name of the field to be added.
-   `type` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The type of the field that is being added.

##### Examples

```javascript
// Creates a username field of type String within the spreadsheet.
sheetDBInstance.addField("Username", "String")
```

#### addItem

Add an item to the database. Currently only supports one item type

##### Parameters

-   `item`  

## Resources

Commit message:

[add] documentation for registering the model

README.md, after:

# Spreadsheet DB

![GitHub repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/C3NZ/ssdb?style=plastic)

## Description

The goal of this project is to create a lightweight database that can be used for prototyping
and hackathon projects. This database being built will rely on the google spreadsheet API, and is not meant
to be used in production. It will provide an easy to use interface for CRUDing resources.

## Getting started

First to obtain the project:

    git clone https://github.com/C3NZ/ssdb.git

Second to connect, you need to get your credentials from google apis for connecting to the app.
After those credentials are created, you can then use a similar layout in your project to get the database
connection going.

    const { connect } = require('ssdb');

    const config = {
      credentialsPath: './credentials.json',
      tokenPath: './token.json',
    };

    connect(config).then(() => {
        ...
    });

Which will load the connection to the database. After that, you can export the `getDB` and `createDB` functions
from the `ssdb` package to get a `SheetDB` instance that will allow you to start working with your spreadsheet
from the command line.

The project is still very barebones, but development is active and looking to improve.

## To dos

-   Add documentation to the project readme.
-   Extend functionality for creating tables.
-   Publish googleapis wrapper for creating the DB.
-   Publish package to NPM.
-   Add testing and code coverage for all functions

## Goals

-   Create a simple and easy to use database.
-   Minimize the amount of steps needed to authenticate and setup a database.
-   Allow people building all sorts of projects to use an easily attachable/detachable database system
    for prototyping.

## API

<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

#### Table of Contents

-   [connect](#connect)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters)
    -   [Examples](#examples)
-   [createDB](#createdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-1)
    -   [Examples](#examples-1)
-   [getDB](#getdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-2)
    -   [Examples](#examples-2)
-   [setup](#setup)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-3)
-   [createSheet](#createsheet)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-4)
-   [getSheet](#getsheet)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-5)
-   [getFields](#getfields)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-6)
-   [getRefreshToken](#getrefreshtoken)
-   [SheetDB](#sheetdb)
    -   [Parameters](#parameters-7)
    -   [getFields](#getfields-1)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-8)
        -   [Examples](#examples-3)
    -   [addField](#addfield)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-9)
        -   [Examples](#examples-4)
    -   [addItem](#additem)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-10)
    -   [registerModel](#registermodel)
        -   [Parameters](#parameters-11)

### connect

connect to the google api. Needed in order to do any database operations and is what
generate the token file if it is not present

#### Parameters

-   `config` **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** The config object that contains properties for authenticating with
    google services. the fields that are used within the object are credentialsPath,
    tokenPath, and debug.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { connect } = require('ssdb');
config = {
  credentialsPath: "path/to/credentials",
  tokenPath: "path/to/tokenfile" // Will create if not already there.
  debug: false // true if you'd like to see what's going on under the hood.
}

// Successfully connects to google services
await connect(config)
```

### createDB

create a database (spreadsheet) from your google account given the name of the spreadsheet.

#### Parameters

-   `name` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The name that you'd like the new database to be named.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { createDB } = require('ssdb');

// Returns a new SheetDB instance
const db = await createDB('sfjklKJhf93Hvkljrf32');
```

### getDB

gets a database (spreadsheet) from your google account given the spreadsheet ID.

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The ID of the sheet that you're trying to receive.

#### Examples

```javascript
const { getDB } = require('ssdb');

// Returns a new SheetDB instance
const db = await getDB('sfjklKJhf93Hvkljrf32')
```

### setup

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `credentialsPath`  
-   `tokenPath`   (optional, default `''`)

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### createSheet

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `name`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getSheet

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getFields

Get the fields from a spreadsheet

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID`  
-   `field`  

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** the field data

### getRefreshToken

### SheetDB

The sheet database instance used for handling database interactions

#### Parameters

-   `sheetID` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The sheetID that this current database is referencing (used for api calls)
-   `data` **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** metadata about the spreadsheet to be stored and kept for reference.
-   `defaultDB`   (optional, default `true`)

#### getFields

Get what fields are currently being stored inside of the database

##### Parameters

-   `field`   (optional, default `''`)

##### Examples

```javascript
// Retrieves the fields within a db
const currentFields = sheetDBInstance.getFields();
// currentFields would then look like this if printed:
{
  fieldName: {
    type: 'String',
    col: 'A1'
  }
}
```

Returns **[Object](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object)** fields - The fields that are currently stored within the database.

#### addField

Get what fields are currently being stored inside of the database

##### Parameters

-   `fieldName` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The name of the field to be added.
-   `type` **[String](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String)** The type of the field that is being added.

##### Examples

```javascript
// Creates a username field of type String within the spreadsheet.
sheetDBInstance.addField("Username", "String")
```

#### addItem

Add an item to the database. Currently only supports one item type

##### Parameters

-   `item`  

#### registerModel

Register a new model to the database

##### Parameters

-   `model`  

## Resources
